README.en.md, before:

# 115 best practices of web Eco-Design

## The project

This web ecodesign reference content has been published by Frédéric Bordage / GreenIT.fr at Eyrolles under the name:

1. “écoconception web : les 100 bonnes pratiques” in 10/2012
2. “écoconception web : les 115 bonnes pratiques, 2ème édition” in 09/2015
3. “écoconception web : les 115 bonnes pratiques, 3ème édition” in 04/2019
4. “écoconception web : les 115 bonnes pratiques, 4ème édition” in 05/2022

We would like to express our sincere thanks to all the contributors who took part in the development and evolution of this repository.

## Requirements

Given the continuous evolution of the web, this repository needs to be regularly updated.
Any proposal or idea for improvement, modification, or removal is welcome.

## How to contribute ?

Please read [the contributor's guide](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Discussions shortcuts:

To simplify your searches, don't forget to use the available filters on the discussions page.

- :infinity: [List of all discussions](https://github.com/cnumr/best-practices/discussions)
- :heavy_plus_sign: [List of discussions for adding BP](https://github.com/cnumr/best-practices/discussions?discussions_q=label%3Aajout)
- :memo: [List of discussions for modifying BP](https://github.com/cnumr/best-practices/discussions?discussions_q=label%3Amodification)
- :heavy_multiplication_x: [List of discussions about BP removal](https://github.com/cnumr/best-practices/discussions?discussions_q=label%3Asuppression)

## Best Practices list

> [!IMPORTANT]
>
> - [Folder containing best practice sheets](src/content/fiches/en/) ;
> - [Folder containing the glossary (TO DO)](src/content/lexique/en/) ;
> - [Personas folder (TO DO)](src/content/personas/en/).

## Licence

The sources and contents of this project are [protected](LICENCE.md)

Commit message:

Update of the README for the v5 version
Adding the rweb.greenif.fr link and more information in the description.

README.en.md, after:

# RWEB - 115 best practices of web Eco-Design

## The framework 

RWEB, also known as the "115 Best Practices for Web Ecodesign ," is a document that lists best practices to implement to reduce the environmental impacts associated with digital services implemented in the form of websites or web applications.

The sheets contain difficulty and priority levels, as well as formal validation rules, enabling effective use in the field.

Since version 5, a correspondence with the [GPFEDS](https://github.com/cnumr/best-practices/edit/main/README.en.md) is available on the sheets when applicable. This allows for the efficient and pragmatic use of these two complementary documents.

The content of this framework is available at [rweb.greenit.fr](https://rweb.greenit.fr/). It has also been translated to Spanish.

## The project

This web ecodesign reference content has been published by Frédéric Bordage / GreenIT.fr at Eyrolles under the name:

1. “écoconception web : les 100 bonnes pratiques” in 10/2012
2. “écoconception web : les 115 bonnes pratiques, 2ème édition” in 09/2015
3. “écoconception web : les 115 bonnes pratiques, 3ème édition” in 04/2019
4. “écoconception web : les 115 bonnes pratiques, 4ème édition” in 05/2022
5. “écoconception web : les 115 bonnes pratiques, 5ème édition” in 06/2025

We would like to express our sincere thanks to all the contributors who took part in the development and evolution of this repository.

## Requirements

Given the continuous evolution of the web, this repository needs to be regularly updated.
Any proposal or idea for improvement, modification, or removal is welcome.

## How to contribute ?

Please read [the contributor's guide](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Discussions shortcuts:

To simplify your searches, don't forget to use the available filters on the discussions page.

- :infinity: [List of all discussions](https://github.com/cnumr/best-practices/discussions)
- :heavy_plus_sign: [List of discussions for adding BP](https://github.com/cnumr/best-practices/discussions?discussions_q=label%3Aajout)
- :memo: [List of discussions for modifying BP](https://github.com/cnumr/best-practices/discussions?discussions_q=label%3Amodification)
- :heavy_multiplication_x: [List of discussions about BP removal](https://github.com/cnumr/best-practices/discussions?discussions_q=label%3Asuppression)

## Best Practices list

> [!IMPORTANT]
>
> - [Folder containing best practice sheets](src/content/fiches/en/) ;
> - [Folder containing the glossary (TO DO)](src/content/lexique/en/) ;
> - [Personas folder (TO DO)](src/content/personas/en/).

## Licence

The sources and contents of this project are [protected](LICENCE.md)
