## Delete unused features

### Identifiers

| GreenIT | V2  | V3  | V4  | V5  |
| :-----: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: |
|         |     |     |     |     |

### Categories

|    Life cycle    |    Tiers    | Responsible |
| :--------------: | :---------: | :---------: |
| 1. Specification | User/Device |     PO      |

### Indications

| Priority | Implementation difficulty | Ecological impact |
| :------: | :-----------------------: | :---------------: |
|    5     |             3             |         5         |

|                Saved resources                |
| :-------------------------------------------: |
| Processor / RAM / Storage / Network / Queries |

### Description

Eliminating unused features involves:

- Measuring feature usage during production.
- Controlling feature usage and removing those that are not sufficiently used or have lost value.
  Removing features reduces the application size, reducing its impact in production, and maintenance costs.

How to remove a feature?

- Disable it: using feature flipping, prevent it from being used with a flag.
- Uninstall it: remove as much of the used code as possible and refactor the remaining code.

The choice between these two methods will depend on the environmental and economic removal cost.

### Example

Let's consider an e-commerce website using two different lists: shopping lists and favorites lists. When redesigning this website, instead of remaining iso-functional, the website team evaluates these features relevance. Measurements show that the favorites list has become outdated. The favorites list is therefore removed along with all its database data.

An administration page might only be used once a year and still be very important (for example: a cache purge that is only used in case of a reference update). In this case, this content must be conserved.

### Validation rule

| The number of ...                      | is equal to or less than |
| -------------------------------------- | :----------------------: |
| poorly used features during production |           10%            |
