## Ensure compatibility with older devices and softwares fleet


### Identifiers

| GreenIT |  V2  |  V3  |  V4  |
|:-------:|:----:|:----:|:----:|
|         |      |      |      |

### Categories

| Life cycle |  Tiers  |  Responsible  |
|:---------:|:----:|:----:|
| 3. Implementation | User/Device | PO |

### Indications

| Priority |      Implementation difficulty       |  Ecological impact    |
|:-------------------:|:-------------------------:|:---------------------:|
| 4 | 3 | 5 |

|Saved resources                                    |
|:----------------------------------------------------------:|
| Electronic waste  |

### Description

It is necessary to adapt website compatibility with oldest hardware and software that users may still use. Web pages must remain available on most constraining configurations: no broken layouts, inactive buttons, displayed errors, or any other problem that prevents reading or navigation.

The most constraining configurations include:

- Oldest browsers versions, or those who generate most compatibility problems.
- Oldest OS versions.
- Least powerful terminals that users have: smartphones, computers, or others.

Configuration choices will depend on the state of the web at the solution release time, as well as the project context: different audiences will bring different constraints.

This configuration choice can be partly determined through available web traffic statistics. However, take into consideration survivorship bias: users who cannot use the site at all will not appear in these statistics. The best way is to conduct a field study of users and their equipment.

### Example

For various reasons (devices that are too old to be updated, lack of administrator access to the system, or ignorance of the existing alternatives), users are stuck on Internet Explorer. Sites developed for modern browsers, using, for example, a lot of flexbox or css grid, will not correctly display content on this browser.



### Validation rule

| The number of ...     | is equal to or less than   |  
|-------------------|:-------------------------:|
| untested pages on the most constraining configurations in the project context    |  0 |
