## Avoid blocking times caused by long running JavaScript processes

### Identifiers

| GreenIT | V2  | V3  | V4  |
| :-----: | :-: | :-: | :-: |
|         |     |     |     |

### Categories

|    Life cycle     |    Tiers    |         Responsible          |
| :---------------: | :---------: | :--------------------------: |
| 3. Implementation | User/Device | Software Architect/Developer |

### Indications

| Priority | Implementation difficulty | Ecological impact |
| :------: | :-----------------------: | :---------------: |
|    4     |             3             |         4         |

| Saved resources |
| :-------------: |
|    Processor    |

### Description

Web browsers have processes that turn code into web pages. They must perform several tasks before being able to display the page:

- parsing the HTML script
- building web pages structure and content (DOM)
- executing pages CSS and JavaScript code.

However, executing JavaScript code can use terminals' processors up to more than 90%, blocking other processes or user interactions. This heavily uses the device, leading to two issues:

- excessive resource use, directly impacting batteries recharging cycles
- main thread blocking, which degrades users experience and can be correlated with processors power (especially on mobile devices)

These two problems can lead users to renew their devices because of perceived obsolescence.

To avoid this, break up your JavaScript into small tasks executed at the required time and not beforehand.

### Example

Total Blocking Time (TBT) measures main Javascript thread activity long tasks total time. A Long Task is a process that lasts more than 50ms and monopolizes web browsers. It is necessary to ensure that the TBT is below 200 ms. Lighthouse or Web Page Test can be used as measurement tools.

### Validation rule

| The number of ...              | is equal to or less than |
| ------------------------------ | :----------------------: |
| long tasks lasting over 200 ms |            0             |
