## Secure administration access

### Identifiers

| GreenIT | V2  | V3  | V4  |
| :-----: | :-: | :-: | :-: |
|         |     |     |     |

### Categories

|    Life cycle     |    Tiers    | Responsible |
| :---------------: | :---------: | :---------: |
| 3. Implementation | User/Device |    User     |

### Indications

| Priority | Implementation difficulty | Ecological impact |
| :------: | :-----------------------: | :---------------: |
|    2     |             2             |         3         |

| Saved resources |
| :-------------: |
|     Network     |

### Description

Websites administration access path is often the same from one website to another when using common CMS. This is true for all sites using administration interfaces with classic access paths. "brute force" attacks are therefore very frequent as soon as "simple" URL are found. These attacks have a very significant impact on networks and infrastructures.

Attacks are more likely to succeed when users identifiers are predictable or when passwords are not strong enough.

### Example

WordPress, one of the most widely used CMS on the market, use this URL for administration section : /wp-admin or /wp-login.php. Joomla offers /administrator. For Kirby, it is /panel, etc.

It is always possible to modify this address to limit attacks and improve website security. Replace administration pages URL with:

- random strings without uppercase letters: /ze62ane96, /o6_jhej639, /dj5zjaih2-ep8e
- one or more words related to your activity: /build, /play, /prepare-the-menu
- or combine both: /play_562fg6

Never use "admin", "domain name of the site", "first or last name of the company's manager" as identifiers. Strong passwords must contain at least 8 characters including: lowercase and uppercase letters, special characters and numbers. It is also possible to use CNIL password generator: [https://www.cnil.fr/fr/generer-un-mot-de-passe-solide](https://www.cnil.fr/fr/generer-un-mot-de-passe-solide)

### Validation rule

| The number of ...                                                    | is equal to or less than |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------- | :----------------------: |
| default administration URL and common identifiers and weak passwords |            0             |
